The goal of this app was to create an inventory tracking system that could be developed and launched to users who have a need for a better tracking system for their business, either small or large. The use of an app like this solves a problem – eliminating the need for excel spreadsheets or messy paper documentation to get a job done. It streamlines a user’s ability to track product inventory as well as order new product. 

To produce a user-centered UI for the app, there are multiple screens needed. The first screen presented to the user is a login screen, as the app contains sensitive data and needs to be password protected. The login screen needed to be eye-catching, yet simple, so a user could be attracted to it while also admiring ease of use and clear design. Also on the login screen is the ability to accept or deny camera permissions for scanning a barcode and permissions to be texted for inventory updates  If the user had not yet created login credentials, a second screen assisted in allowing the user to sign up. The app contained a database that would store a user’s name, username, and password for future access. Once signed in, the user would be directed to the main page, which is a list of product inventory. This list contained the product name, quantity, and a picture of the product. For my app, the inventory contained different types of chips. In grid fashion, the name, quantity, and picture of the chip bag/container appeared in a scrollable list. The screen is simple, yet contained the colorful picture of the chips so the user could find the desired product quickly and easily; this helped make the design successful. Additionally, the user could click on the large plus sign at the bottom right of the screen and add a completely new product. If the user needed to view more specific detail about a particular product, he or she could click on the name of the product and be taken to another screen that would produce more item detail, as well as allowing the user to add or delete inventory from the product or remove the product completely. In coding these designs, the most important factor was making the transition from screen to screen simple. Popups were included for permissions and for adding a product to the inventory, minimizing the need to press the back button too many times. These techniques can be applied in the future because all apps require users to be able to intuitively understand the way the app works based on features shared by Android apps.

To ensure my code was fully functional, I ran the program after each change. This is a time-consuming process, and creating tests within the program would have been better in the long run, but I was still able to generally pinpoint where the bugs were occurring and fix them before I got too far into programming other parts of the app. The process of checking the program is important because if a developer writes an entire program before ever testing it, chances are there will be bugs that will be too difficult to discover, as this type of coding contains many different files that all must work together seamlessly.

The specific component from my mobile app that I feel I was particularly successful with was in the main page where the user accesses the inventory list. I was proud of the design I made there by creating an inventory with images and scrollable content.
